# QuickOpp Algorithm Implementation

An implementation of the QuickOpp algorithm described in the paper
"Complete coverage path planning in an agricultural environment"<sup>1</sup>

Completed as a requirement of a Master's Degree in Computer
Science and Robotics at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology.

Inspired by my work at Raven Industries Inc. in the Applied Technology Division.

### Author
Andrew Stelter

### Major Professor
Dr. Larry Pyeatt <sup>3</sup>

## Background
The problem of Complete Coverage Path Planning (CCPP) is a difficult one to solve.
The goal of a CCPP algorithm is to find a path which can be used to traverse an area such that the entire
area is covered and to find a path such that it is the 'least expensive' by some critera.

There are numerous applications where a best-case solution to the CCPP problem could be used to
perfectly optimize some process - for example, when attempting to determine the path that should be
taken by a Roomba to vacuum a room. CCPP often comes up in the context of precision agriculture, where
finding an efficient path to plant your field reduces the amount of product you expend to plant or spray
and the amount of fuel used to do so.

While there is no known perfect solution to the problem, there are a number of algorithms which
provide sufficiently optimized solutions for most uses.

The algorithm (dubbed QuickOpp) defined by Theresa Driscoll in her 2011 thesis at Iowa State University is one such algorithm which
has an emphasis on agriculture. The QuickOpp algorithm is a redesign of the algorithm designed by Jin<sup>2</sup> with the goal
of reducing computational complexity. This project is an implemetation of Theresa Drisoll's work.

## Project Contents
This project is an implementation in three parts
* A C++ library, implemented without dependency on Qt, to perform the QuickOpp algorithm.
* A set of unit tests for the core algorithmic pieces, written using Google Test
* A Qt application which utilizies the QuickOpp library and provides a UI for users to load shapes for processing

### Layout
- Source files are contained under the `src` directory
- Build files are contained under the `qmake` directory
    - ccpp.pro is the root QMake file and can be used to build the entire project
- Test sources are contained under the `gtests` directory
- Any other git repos which are utilized as dependencies are cloned as git submodules under the `submodules` directory

## Building

The project does not have any significantly complicated requirements. There is no install step, so the binaries produced must
be copied or used directly from the build directory.

This project does include git submodules, so be sure to either `git clone --recurse-submodules` or `git submodule update --init --recursive`
after cloning.

### Dependencies
- boost
    - Tested with 1.71.0
    - Mainly Boost.Geometry used, pieces of Boost.Core
- qt
    - Tested with 5.12.0
    - Only required to build the ccpp tool sub-project
    - Uses core, gui, and widgets modules
- geographiclib
    - Included as a git submodule
- googletest
    - Included as a git submodule

### Build Output
Building this project will produce a file structure that looks something like this

```
|- Makefile
|- lib
|  |- libccpp.a
|  |- libgeographiclib.a
|
|- bin
|  |- ccpp-tests
|  |- ccpp-tool
|  |- shape-importers
|     |- [plugins]
|
|- ccpp-tool
|  |- [build files]
|- ccpp-lib
|  |- [build files]
...
```

The `bin` directory contains the executables for the test application and the
demo ccpp application. Currently, there is no install step to prepare the library
portion of the project for inclusion in another project.

#### With Qt Creator
1. Load `qmake/ccpp.pro` in Qt Creator
2. Choose an appropriate shadow build directory (or choose an in-source build)
3. Build the project with the 'build' button

#### From the Command Line
1. Change to the directory you would like to build in
    - This could be the project root, some other directory in the repo, or a wholly separate directory
2. Run `qmake [path/to/qmake/ccpp.pro]`
3. Run `make qmake_all`
4. Run `make`

### Documentation
A Doxygen website for this project can be generated by running `doxygen Doxyfile` in the root of this
repo. This will require that `dot` be in your PATH for generation of association graphs. The documentation
will be generated in `doc/html`.

## Library Design
### Code Layout
As stated above, all source files for the project are placed under the `src` directory. The C++ namespace
structure mirrors the directory structure under `src`, so an object in the file `src/ads/ccpp/decomposer.h`
would be in the namespace `ads::ccpp`. With the exception of `.cpp` files including their associated `.h` file,
all file includes in the project are relative to `src`, so it is necessary only to add `src` to the `INCLUDEPATH`.

For the sake of hiding internal details of classes, some key classes have been elevated a level in the namespace
hierarchy. For example the Dcel class is found in `src/ads/dcel/dcel.h` and has the qualified name `ads::dcel::Dcel`,
but it is also accessible as `ads::Dcel`.

There are three components of `libccpp`: The Dcel (Doubly-Connected Edge-List) component, the Polygon Sweep Line Algorithm
component, and the CCPP algorithm itself. These are separated mainly because Dcels and Sweep-Line algorithms are concepts
existing outside the context of the QuickOpp algorithm and the could potentially be developed into full libraries in their
own right.

Within the ccpp-specific portion of the library, there is a set of interfaces defined in `ads/ccpp/interfaces` and
an implementation of each of the interfaces specific to the QuickOpp algorithm. With the exception of the cost function
interface (`TurnCostCalculatorIf`), the interfaces exist only as a logical separation of duties - that is, the user of
the library does not need to know about their existance, inherit from them, or instantiate concrete implementations of
them.

### Usage
The following code snippet shows the minimum requirements to use the library to execute the QuickOpp algorithm:
```
#include "ads/ccpp/quickopp.h"
#include "ads/ccpp/turn-cost/u-shaped.h"

// Generate/load a polygon of type ads::ccpp::geometry::Polygon2d
// which is a typedef of boost::geometry::model::polygon<boost::geometry::model::d2::point_xy<double>>

try
{
    const auto ringsAndLines = ads::ccpp::quickOpp(myPolygon, 1, ads::ccpp::turn_cost::UShaped());
} catch (ads::Error& err)
{
    // do something
}
```

This will perform the QuickOpp algorithm to form a series of rings denoting
regions of your polygon that should be traversed separately, and a sequence of lines spaced 1 unit apart for each
ring, denoting the paths that should be used to cover the regions.

For best results, the coordinate system of the points in the polygon should use meters as its units;
however, this is not strictly required. However, until some of the built-in epsilon comparisons are
removed or abstracted, this library does not work well with Very Small polygons (points with a difference of < 0.001)

The call should be wrapped with an exception block because the library is written such that it may throw
an exception in one of two cases
* User input is an invalid shape (it does not pass `boost::is_valid()`)
* One of the assertions during the algorithm fails
    * This is likely an indication that you've discovered an edge case which is handled incorrectly by the library

#### Custom Cost Functions
The last argument to `quickOpp()` is a turn cost function. This parameter should be an instance of some type that
inherits `ads::ccpp::interfaces::TurnCostCalculatorIf`. The calculator will be used to determine the cost value associated
with an edge of the shape if the vehicle is traveling a straight line swathing pattern at some given angle.

The library includes a U-Shaped turn around cost function which implements the cost function defined in the original
QuickOpp paper. It will likely be desirable for users to implement their own cost functions for other types of turns,
like a bow-tie or bulb-shaped turn.

## Algorithmic Description

## References
<sup>1</sup>Driscoll, Theresa Marie, "Complete coverage path planning in an agricultural environment" (2011).Graduate Theses and Dissertations. 12095. https://lib.dr.iastate.edu/etd/12095

<sup>2</sup>Jin, J. Optimal Field Coverage Path Planning on 2D and 3D Surfaces. A dissertation submitted to the graduate faculty in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, Agricultural Engineering. Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, 2009. 

<sup>3</sup>http://www.mcs.sdsmt.edu/lpyeatt/
